GREP15: More detailed info about pybind11 implementation (#24)
gnuradio/greps: grep-0015-remove-swig.md

# GREP 0015 -- Replace SWIG with something else

- Original Author: Martin Braun <martin@gnuradio.org>

> - Champion: Martin Braun <martin@gnuradio.org> / Josh Morman <mormjb@gmail.com>

Reviewer: You can have this line if you want :)

- Status: Draft

History:
- 26-Dec-2018: Initial Draft
- 20-Feb-2020: Update with current design assumptions toward pybind11

## Abstract

**Note: This is a very raw GREP. It's a discussion we've been meaning to have
for a while. This GREP will stay here for as long as this repo will exist, even
if the out come of the discussion is to not replace SWIG.**

> SWIG is a huge dependency. We might be able to do better.  The leading candidate is pybind11, which is a header only library to produce Python bindings from c++. Potential gains:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SWIG is a huge dependency. We might be able to do better.  The leading candidate is pybind11, which is a header only library to produce Python bindings from C++. Potential gains:
```

## Copyright / License

This GREP is licensed as CC-BY-ND.

> Copyright 2020 Free Software Foundation??

Reviewer: Just put our names here.

## Motivation

> A lot of us have cursed SWIG programming. If we can get rid of it... well,
> wouldn't that be great. But maybe we can't. Let's find out.

Reviewer: I guess we've found out that we can remove it:

```suggestion
A lot of us have cursed SWIG programming. That alone is a good motivation for removing it.
```

Since SWIG takes in the entire public header file, many methods and class members that are not necessarily intended to be exposed through the python API gets automatically bound.  Pybind11 requires deliberate binding of methods, and the binding code does not get regenerated on every compile.  

## Description

### Block Binding Code Structure

In each gr module, create a `python/bindings` directory

`python/bindings`
-  `python_bindings.cpp` <-- c++ code to build up the pybind11 module block by block
   -  alternatively this can be broken up into a per-block cpp file

> -  `generated/` <-- folder to contain automatically generated binding code with [blockname]_python.hpp

Author: On second thought, I think this is an unnecessary distinction, especially in-tree.  Let's just put all the binding files in the bindings directory for simplicity

-  `custom/` <-- folder to contain manually generated binding code

Let's take as an example the public header of char_to_float.h in gr-blocks/include/gnuradio/blocks

```c++
class BLOCKS_API char_to_float : virtual public sync_block
{
public:
    typedef std::shared_ptr<char_to_float> sptr;
    static sptr make(size_t vlen = 1, float scale = 1.0);
    virtual float scale() const = 0;
    virtual void set_scale(float scale) = 0;
};
```

> In order to bind this, we write/generate `char_to_float_python.hpp`:

Author: Let's just make this char_to_float_python.cc, and treat as a separate compilation unit
